


  


    
Item 7.

                
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
The following discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and the notes related
          thereto which are included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements. Our actual
          results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in
          this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Overview
 
We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 2020 for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase,
          reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital
          stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt.
 
As of the date of this Report, we have signed a non-binding letter of intent with the Potential Target, but we have not signed a business combination agreement, or similar definitive binding
          agreement, with the Potential Target. Any business combination with the Potential Target would be subject to a minimum cash condition and other customary closing conditions. Our obligation to close will also be subject to customary closing
          conditions. We also expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans, and we cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful.

          
54

            

            
Table of Contents
On February 28, 2023 we held an Extension Meeting where the 
date by which we have to consummate a business combination
24,304,187
247,259,068
 
Results of Operations
 
We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities through December 31, 2022 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the
          initial public offering, described below, and identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We historically have generated
          non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for
          due diligence expenses.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2022, we had net income of $13,521,299, which consists of income of $11,881,250 derived from changes in fair value of the warrant liabilities and interest income
          earned on investments held in the Trust Account of $3,945,497, offset by general and administrative costs of $1,555,038 and provision for income taxes of $750,410.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2021, we had net income of $4,844,863, which consists of income of $8,680,000 derived from changes in fair value of the warrant liabilities and interest income
          earned on investments held in the trust account of $23,634, offset by general and administrative costs of $3,858,771.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
On March 4, 2021, we consummated the initial public offering of 28,750,000 Units which includes the full exercise by the underwriter of its over-allotment option in the amount of 3,750,000 Units,
          at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $287,500,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the initial public offering, we consummated the sale of 8,250,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant in a
          private placement to Arrowroot Acquisition LLC, generating gross proceeds of $8,250,000.
 
Following the initial public offering, the full exercise of the over-allotment option, and the sale of the Private Units, a total of $287,500,000 was placed in the Trust Account. We incurred
          $16,392,714 in transaction costs related to the initial public offering, consisting of $5,750,000 in cash underwriting fees, net of reimbursements, $10,062,500 of deferred underwriting fees and $580,214 of other offering costs.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $1,597,905. Net income of $13,521,299 was affected by income of $11,881,250 derived from changes in fair value of the
          warrant liabilities and interest income earned on investments held in the Trust Account of $3,945,497. Net changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $707,543 of cash for operating activities.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $2,436,432. Net income of $4,844,863 was affected by income related to the change in fair value of the warrant
          liabilities of $8,680,000, transaction costs allocable to warrants of $760,022 and interest earned on marketable securities held in trust account of $23,634. Net changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $662,317 of cash for operating
          activities.
 
As of December 31, 2022, we had cash and marketable securities held in the trust account of $290,737,917 (including $3,945,497 of interest) consisting of money market funds which invest primarily
          in U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of 185 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the trust account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through December 31, 2022, we withdrew an amount of $731,214 interest earned from the trust account to
          pay franchise and income taxes.
 

          
55

            

            
Table of Contents
We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account (less income taxes payable), to complete our
          business combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account will be used as working capital to finance
          the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies.
 
As of December 31, 2022, we had cash of $145,980. We intend to use the funds held outside the trust account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on
          prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses,
          and structure, negotiate and complete a business combination.
 
In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a business combination, the sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors or their affiliates
          may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a business combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held
          outside the trust account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our trust account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants of the post-business combination
          entity at a price of $1.00 per warrant. The warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants.
 
On December 21, 2020, the sponsor issued an unsecured promissory note to the Company (the “First Promissory Note”), pursuant to which the Company
            may borrow up to an aggregate principal amount of $300,000. The outstanding balance under the First Promissory Note of $149,992 was repaid at the closing of the initial public offering on March 4, 2021.
   
On December 29, 2021, the Company issued an unsecured promissory note (the “Second Promissory Note”) in the principal amount of up to $1,500,000 to its sponsor, of which $750,000 was funded by
          the sponsor upon execution of the Second Promissory Note and an additional amount of $200,000 was drawn down on March 17, 2022. On April 21, 2022, the Company drew down the remaining $550,000 pursuant to the terms of the Second Promissory Note
          issued on December 29, 2021. Following this draw down, the full $1,500,000 available under the Second Promissory Note was outstanding. There are no remaining funds available under the Second Promissory Note for future drawdowns. As of December
          31, 2022 and 2021, $1,500,000 and $750,000 were drawn down on this Second Promissory Note, respectively.
  
The Second Promissory Note does not bear interest. The principal balance of the Second Promissory Note will be payable on the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which the Company consummates
          its initial business combination or (ii) the date that the winding up of the Company is effective (such date, the “Maturity Date”). In the event the Company consummates its initial business combination, the sponsor has the option on the Maturity
          Date to convert all or any portion of the principal outstanding under the Second Promissory Note into that number of warrants (“Working Capital Warrants”) equal to the portion of the principal amount of the Second Promissory Note being converted
          divided by $1.00, rounded up to the nearest whole number. The terms of the Working Capital Warrants, if any, would be identical to the terms of the private placement warrants issued by the Company at the time of its initial public offering, as
          described in the prospectus for the initial public offering dated March 1, 2021 and filed with the SEC, including the transfer restrictions applicable thereto. The Third Promissory Note is not convertible into Working Capital Warrants or any
          other security. The Promissory Notes are subject to customary events of default, the occurrence of certain of which automatically triggers the unpaid principal balance of the Promissory Notes and all other sums payable with regard to the
          Promissory Notes becoming immediately due and payable.
 

          
On February 23, 2023, the Company issued an unsecured promissory note in the principal amount of $500,000 in favor of the sponsor (the “Third
            Promissory Note” and together with the Second Promissory Note, the “Promissory Notes”), which was funded in full by the sponsor upon execution of the Third Promissory Note. The Third Promissory Note is not convertible into Working Capital
            Warrants or any other security.
On March 6, 2023, in connection with the approval by the Company’s stockholders of the Extension Date at the Extension Meeting, the Lender
            made a $1,760,000 deposit into the trust account in exchange for an unsecured promissory note that matures upon the Company closing its initial business combination (the “Fourth Promissory Note”). If the Company completes an initial business
            combination, the Company will, at the option of the Lender, repay the amounts loaned under the Fourth Promissory Note or convert a portion or all of the amounts loaned under such promissory note into warrants, which warrants will be identical
            to the private placement warrants issued in connection with the Company’s initial public offering. If the Company does not complete an initial business combination by the Extension date Date, such promissory note will be repaid only from funds
            held outside of the Trust Account or will be forfeited, eliminated or otherwise forgiven.
All of the Company’s outstanding promissory notes are subject to customary events of default, the occurrence of certain of which automatically
            triggers the unpaid principal balance of the promissory notes and all other sums payable with regard to the promissory notes becoming immediately due and payable.
  
If our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a business combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may
          have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our business combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant
          number of our public shares upon consummation of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination.
 

          
56

            

            
Table of Contents
Based on the foregoing, management has determined that we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet our anticipated obligations for at least twelve months after the financial statements are
          available to be issued, as such, the events and circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, as discussed further below. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis
          and do not include any adjustments that might arise as a result of uncertainties about our ability to continue as a going concern.
 
Going Concern
 
In connection with the Company’s assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with FASB’s Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-15, “Disclosures of Uncertainties about an Entity’s
          Ability to Continue as a Going Concern,” management has determined that if the Company is unable to raise additional funds to alleviate liquidity needs, obtain approval for an extension of the deadline or complete a Business Combination by July
          6, 2023 (or such later date as permitted by the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation) but no later than February 4, 2024, then the Company will cease all operations except for the purpose of liquidating. The liquidity
          condition and date for mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the
          Company be required to liquidate after the Extension Date.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements
 
We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2022. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships
          with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance
          sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets.
 
Contractual Obligations
 
We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay the sponsor a monthly fee of $20,000 for office
          space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support services. We began incurring these fees on March 4, 2021 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and our
          liquidation.
 
The underwriter is entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $10,062,500 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriter from the amounts held in the Trust
          Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement.
 
Critical Accounting Estimate
 
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
          and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could
          materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting estimate:
 
Warrant Liabilities
 
We account for the Warrants in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40 under which the Warrants do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities.
          Accordingly, we classify the Warrants as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the Warrants to fair value at each reporting period. This liability is subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in
          fair value is recognized in our statements of operations. The Private Warrants and the Public Warrants for periods where no observable traded price was available are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. For periods subsequent to the detachment
          of the Public Warrants from the Units, the Public Warrant quoted market price was used as the fair value as of each relevant date.   
 

          
57

            

            
Table of Contents



  


    
Item 7A.

                
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 
Not required for smaller reporting companies.
 



  


    
Item 8.

                
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
This information appears following Item 15 of this Report and is included herein by reference.
 



  


    
Item 9.

                
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
None.
 

          
58

            

            
Table of Contents



  


    
Item 9A.

                
Controls and Procedures.
 

          
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a–15(e) and 15d-15(e) are designed to ensure that information required to
            be disclosed by us in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management,
            including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As required by Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer carried out an evaluation
            of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2022. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls
            and procedures were effective.
We do not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all errors and all instances of fraud. Disclosure controls and
            procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met. Further, the design of disclosure controls and procedures must
            reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all disclosure controls and procedures, no evaluation of disclosure controls and
            procedures can provide absolute assurance that we have detected all our control deficiencies and instances of fraud, if any. The design of disclosure controls and procedures also is based partly on certain assumptions about the likelihood of
            future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a- 15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that
            occurred during the most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
  
Management’s Report on Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting
 
As required by SEC rules and regulations implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
          financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external reporting purposes in
          accordance with GAAP. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
 

          



  


    
 

                  
(1)

                  
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of our company,
 

          



  


    
 

                  
(2)

                  
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only
                    in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors, and
 

          



  


    
 

                  
(3)

                  
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect errors or misstatements in our financial statements. Also, projections of any evaluation
          of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree or compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management assessed the
          effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2022. In making these assessments, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal
          Control — Integrated Framework (2013). Based on our assessments and those criteria, management determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2022.
 

          
59

            

            
Table of Contents
This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm due to our status as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act.
 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
          internal control over financial reporting.
 



  


    
Item 9B.

                
Other Information
 
Not applicable.
 



  


    
Item 9C.

                
Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
 
Not applicable.
 

          
60

            

            
Table of Contents