Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



 



References to the “Company,”
“us,” “our” or “we” refer to Nocturne Acquisition Corporation. The following discussion and analysis
of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and related
notes included herein.



 



Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements



 



All statements other than
statements of historical fact included in this Report including, without limitation, statements under this “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” regarding the Company’s financial position, business
strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Report,
words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend” and
similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Company’s management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking
statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Company’s
management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors
detailed in our filings with the SEC, including the section of this Report titled “Risk Factors” as well as the sections
titled “Risk Factors” contained in our Registration Statement, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Definitive Proxy
Statements on Schedule 14A (including the March Proxy Statement), each of which is filed with the SEC, and the corresponding “Risk
Factors” section which will be contained in the proxy materials we file with the SEC and disseminate in connection with the approval
of our initial business combination with Cognos.



 



All subsequent written
or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on the Company’s behalf are qualified in their entirety
by this paragraph.



 



The following discussion
and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the
notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.



 



Overview



 



We are a blank check company
incorporated in the Cayman Islands on October 28, 2020 formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, amalgamation, share exchange, asset
acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or other similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate
our initial business combination with Cognos using cash derived from the proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the private
placement units, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, shares and debt.



 



We expect to continue to
incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a business combination
will be successful.



 



Results of Operations



 



We have neither engaged in
any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception through December 31, 2022 were organizational activities,
activities necessary to prepare for our initial public offering, described below, and subsequent to our initial public offering, activities
related to identifying a target company for our initial business combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until
after the completion of our initial business combination, at the earliest. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income
on marketable securities held in the trust account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting,
accounting and auditing compliance), as well as in connection with due diligence related to our initial business combination.



 



For the year ended December
31, 2022, we had a net loss of $1,208,280, which consisted of $2,047,534 of operating and formation costs offset by interest earned on
our marketable securities held in the trust account of $839,254.



 



For the year ended December
31, 2021, we had a net loss of $710,157 which consisted of $717,764 of operating and formation costs offset by interest earned on our
marketable securities held in the trust account of $7,607.



 







    

    
 

    



 



Liquidity, Capital Resources and Going Concern



 



On April 5, 2021, we completed
our initial public offering of 10,000,000 units, at $10.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds of $100,000,000. Simultaneously with the
closing of our initial public offering, we completed the sale of 450,000 private placement units at a price of $10.00 per Private Placement
Unit in a private placement to the sponsor, generating gross proceeds of $4,500,000.



 



On April 14, 2021, in connection
with the underwriters’ exercise of their over-allotment option in full, we consummated the sale of an additional 1,500,000 units
at a price of $10.00 per unit, generating total gross proceeds of $15,000,000. In addition, we also consummated the sale of an additional
15,000 private placement units at $10.00 per Private Unit, generating total gross proceeds of $150,000.



 



Following the Initial Public
Offering, the full exercise of the over-allotment option and the sale of the Private Placement Units, a total of $116,150,000 was placed
in the Trust Account. We incurred $6,597,115 of transaction costs, consisting of $2,000,000 of underwriting fees, $4,025,000 of deferred
underwriting fees and $572,115 of other offering costs.



 



For the year ended December
31, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $1,257,161. Net loss of $1,208,280 was affected by interest earned on marketable
securities held in the trust account of $839,254. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $790,373 of cash for operating
activities.



 



For the year ended December
31, 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $562,780. Net loss of $710,157 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities
held in the trust account of $7,607. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $154,984 of cash for operating activities.



 



As of December 31, 2022, we
had cash of $47,373. We intend to use the funds held outside the trust account primarily to complete our initial business combination
with Cognos.



 



In order to finance transaction
costs in connection with a business combination, our sponsor or an affiliate of our sponsor or certain of our directors and officers may,
but are not obligated to (except as described below), loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a business combination, we will
repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside
the trust account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our trust account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000
of such loans may be convertible into units of the combined company at a price of $10.00 per unit at the option of the lender. The units
would be identical to the private placement units. The terms of such loans by our officers and directors, if any, have not been determined
and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The loans would be repaid upon consummation of a business combination, without
interest.



 



On October 27, 2021, our
sponsor committed to provide us with an aggregate of $150,000 in loans through April 5, 2023, which was the current De-SPAC Deadline
at the time. These loans will be non-interest bearing, unsecured and will be repaid upon the consummation of a business combination.
If we do not consummate a business combination, all amounts loaned to us will be forgiven except to the extent that we have funds available
outside of the trust account to repay such loans.



 



If our estimate of the costs
associated with sourcing, negotiating, and consummating our initial business combination prove to be inaccurate, we may have insufficient
funds available to operate our business prior to our initial business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing
either to complete our business combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion
of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination.



 



To the extent we need to raise
additional funds to operate our business, the Company’s management believes that our sponsor will provide working capital loans
that will provide sufficient liquidity to meet the Company’s working capital needs through the earlier of the consummation of a
business combination and one year from the date of this filing. If the Company is unable to raise additional capital, it may be required
to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily include or be limited to, curtailing operations,
suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction and reducing overhead expenses. The Company cannot provide any assurance that new financing
will be available to it on commercially acceptable terms or at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time, which is considered to be one year from the date of issuance of
the Company’s financial statements if the initial business combination with Cognos is not consummated. The financial statements
do not include any adjustments related to recovery of recorded assets or the classification of liabilities that might be necessary should
the Company be unable to continue as a going concern.



 







    

    
 

    



 



Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements



 



We have no obligations, assets
or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2022. We do not participate in transactions
that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which
would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance
sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased
any non-financial assets.



 



Contractual Obligations



 



We do not have any long-term
debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay our sponsor a monthly
fee of $10,000 for office space, administrative and support services. We began incurring these fees on March 30, 2021 and will continue
to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the business combination and our liquidation.



 



The underwriters are entitled
to a deferred fee of $0.35 per unit, or $4,025,000 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the
amounts held in the trust account solely in the event that the Company completes a business combination, subject to the terms of the
underwriting agreement.



 



Critical Accounting Policies



 



The preparation of financial
statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially
differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies:



  



Ordinary Shares Subject to Redemption



 



We account for our ordinary
shares subject to possible conversion in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 480
“Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity.” Ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption are classified as a liability instrument
and measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable ordinary shares (including ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are
either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control)
are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, ordinary shares are classified as shareholders’ equity. Our ordinary shares
feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to the occurrence of uncertain future events.
Accordingly, ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders’
(deficit) equity section of our balance sheets. 


 



Net Loss Per Ordinary Share



 



Net loss per ordinary share
is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Accretion associated
with the redeemable ordinary shares is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value.



 







    

    
 

    



 



Recent Accounting Standards



 



In August 2020, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2020-06, Debt — Debt with
Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging — Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40)
(“ASU 2020-06”) to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that
require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope
exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entity’s own equity. The new standard also introduces
additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entity’s own equity.
ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible
instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective January 1, 2022 and should be applied on a full or modified retrospective basis, with early adoption
permitted beginning on January 1, 2021. We adopted ASU 2020-06 effective January 1, 2021. The adoption of ASU 2020-06 did not have an
impact on our financial statements.



 



Management does not believe
that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our
financial statements.



 



Factors That May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations



 



Our results of operations
and our ability to complete an initial business combination may be adversely affected by various factors that could cause economic uncertainty
and volatility in the financial markets, many of which are beyond our control. Our business could be impacted by, among other things,
downturns in the financial markets or in economic conditions, increases in oil prices, inflation, increases in interest rates, systemic
bank failures, supply chain disruptions, declines in consumer confidence and spending, the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, including
resurgences and the emergence of new variants, geopolitical instability, such as the military conflict in the Ukraine, and the possibility
that we may not be able to consummate the proposed initial business combination with Cognos. We cannot at this time fully predict the
likelihood of one or more of the above events, their duration or magnitude or the extent to which they may negatively impact our business
and our ability to complete the proposed initial business combination with Cognos. Please refer to the section of this Report titled “Risk
Factors” as well as the sections titled “Risk Factors” contained in our Registration Statement, our Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, and our Definitive Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A (including the March Proxy Statement), each of which is filed with the
SEC, and the corresponding “Risk Factors” section which will be contained in the proxy materials we file with the SEC and
disseminate in connection with the approval of our initial business combination with Cognos.



 



In addition, we may not be able complete the business combination should the business combination become subject
to review by a U.S. government entity, such as the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (“CFIUS”). If CFIUS
or another U.S. government entity elects to review the business combination, the time necessary to complete such review or a decision
to prohibit the business combination could prevent us from completing the business combination and require us to liquidate.



 



Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk.



 



Following the consummation
of our initial public offering, the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including amounts in the trust account, have been invested
in U.S. government treasury securities with a maturity of 185 days or less or in certain money market funds that invest primarily in U.S.
government treasury securities. However, in order to mitigate the risk that the Company could be deemed to be operating as an unregistered
investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, the Company has decided to instruct Continental to liquidate
the Company’s investments in money market funds invested primarily in U.S. government treasury securities and thereafter to hold
all funds in the trust account in cash or in U.S. government treasury securities until the earlier of consummation of the initial business
combination or the Company’s liquidation. Due to the short-term nature of these investments, we believe there will be no associated
material exposure to interest rate risk.



 



Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.



 



Reference is made to pages
F-1 through F-17 comprising a portion of this Report.



 







    

    
 

    



 



Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure.



 



None.



 



Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.



 



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



 



Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by us in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified
in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure



 



As required by Rules 13a-15
and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2022. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective, due solely to the
material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the Company’s accounting for complex financial instruments.
As a result, we performed additional analysis as deemed necessary to ensure that our financial statements were prepared in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, management believes that the financial statements included in
this Form 10-K present fairly in all material respects our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the period presented.



 



Management intends to implement
remediation steps to improve our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. Specifically,
we intend to expand and improve our review process for complex securities and related accounting standards. We have improved this process
by enhancing access to accounting literature, identification of third-party professionals with whom to consult regarding complex accounting
applications and consideration of additional staff with the requisite experience and training to supplement existing accounting professionals.



 



Management’s Annual Report on Internal
Controls over Financial Reporting



 



Our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as such
term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act). Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes, in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Due to inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with policies and procedures may deteriorate.



 



Our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 and, in
making this assessment, used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013 framework). Because of the material weakness described above, our management believes that,
as of December 31, 2022, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on those criteria.



 



This Report does not include
an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. Our auditors
will not be required to opine on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of
2012.



 



Changes in Internal Control over Financial
Reporting



 



There were no changes in
our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the
most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.



 



Item 9B. Other Information.



 



On May 24, 2023, the Company received a second notification from Nasdaq that it was in violation of a Nasdaq continued listing requirement
for its failure to timely file its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. The notification provided that
the Company had until June 20, 2023 to submit a plan to regain compliance with this continued listing requirement.



 



Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions
that Prevent Inspections.



 



Not applicable.



 







    

    
 

    



 


