ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION
The following discussion and analysis should be read together with our financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Industry Data” for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K.
Overview
We are a company providing technology solutions to improve the clinical effectiveness and efficiency of healthcare providers. Our mission is to develop, manufacture and market innovative proprietary products and services that assist our customers in evaluating and treating chronic diseases. Our patented and FDA cleared product, QuantaFlo, which measures arterial blood flow in the extremities to aid in the diagnosis of PAD. In April 2021, we entered into an agreement with a private company to exclusively market and distribute Insulin Insights, an FDA-cleared software product that recommends optimal insulin dosing for diabetic patients in the United States, including Puerto Rico, except for select accounts. We made investments in this software company and in another private company whose product, Discern, is a test for early Alzheimer’s disease. We continue to develop additional complementary proprietary products in-house, and seek out other arrangements for additional products and services that we believe will bring value to our customers and to our company. We believe our current products and services, and any future products or services that we may offer, position us to provide valuable information to our customer base, which in turn permits them to better guide patient care.
In the year ended December 31, 2021, we had total revenues of $53.0 million and net income of $17.2 million compared to total revenues of $38.6 million and net income of $14.0 million in 2020. We had an income tax expense of $2.2 million in 2021, compared to $2.5 million in 2020. Our pre-tax net income was $19.5 million in 2021 compared to $16.5 million in 2020.
Recent Developments
Late in the first quarter and into the second quarter of 2020, we experienced decreased test volumes due to COVID-19 related “social distancing” and other executive orders mandating “shelter-in-place” or similar restrictions. These governmental restrictions limited patient visits by our customers, and restricted participation in trade shows and in-person training. As such restrictions have been lifted around the country and non-emergency medical services resumed in late 2020, our business returned to and even exceeded pre-COVID-19 levels. However, sales personnel continued to be limited in ability to attend trade shows and conduct in-person training through early 2021. In the third and fourth quarters of 2020, we experienced even higher test volumes as our customers accelerated usage due to a backlog of untested patients. In 2021, variable fee license revenues (fee-per-test), which grew strongly in the first half of 2021, decreased sequentially in the second half of 2021. We believe this new pattern in the home-testing market is due to a 
36
Table of Contents
COVID-19 related timing change in the behavior of insurance plans when ordering QuantaFlo testing from our health risk assessment customers. We believe this new pattern of testing earlier in the year and the effect on variable fee license revenues may not continue in 2022 or even beyond 2022. However, in January 2022 compared to December 2021, fixed-fee monthly license revenues increased by approximately 1% while variable fee license revenues (i.e. fee-per-test) increased by approximately 87%. Comparing January 2022 to January 2021, fixed-fee monthly revenues increased by approximately 13%, while variable fee license revenues increased by approximately 6%. All numbers for January 2022 are preliminary and unaudited.
As we look forward into 2022, there is continued uncertainty as recent outbreaks of variants have occurred and vaccination rates lag in certain jurisdictions. New, additional or different restrictions could be imposed, which could impact the usage of our product by our customers, or further impact the timing of demand for our products. Other customers who have fixed-fee licenses could decide to cancel their licenses if they are not able to use our device as frequently as they had anticipated in light of such restrictions.
In April 2021, following on our October 2020 minority investment in Mellitus Health Inc., we entered into a distribution agreement for its software product, Insulin Insights, and pre-paid for $2.0 million of software licenses. We began implementing our marketing plan in the second half of the year.
In November 2021, we mutually agreed to terminate an exclusive distribution agreement with a private company for its product line and took a charge of $1.2 million of product inventory, preferring to focus on products having higher margin and larger revenue opportunities.
Sources of Revenues and Expenses
Revenues
We generate revenues primarily from the rental or license of our vascular testing product. We recognize revenues from the licensing of our vascular testing product pursuant to agreements that normally automatically renew each month with revenues recognized on a daily convention basis. Our arrangements with customers for our vascular testing product are normally on a month-to-month basis with fees billed at the rates established in our customer agreements, which are either fixed fees, or variable fees based on usage. We also recognize revenue for hardware and supplies sales, as well as sales of product licenses under our exclusive marketing and distribution agreement, as of the date of shipment.
Cost of revenues
Our cost of revenues for our vascular testing product consists primarily of five components: the depreciation expense of our vascular testing product for lease; the write-off of the residual value of our vascular testing products retired from active leasing; manufacturing oversight personnel costs; the cost of hardware and supplies sold; and other miscellaneous items, such as freight, that are not directly related to product production. Each vascular testing product unit has a depreciation schedule based on the cost of the unit. The cost of each unit is depreciated on a straight-line basis over 36 months. Each unit has its own cost of production, which varies from time to time. We believe that the cost of each unit is a function of manufacturing efficiencies, supply costs and fixed overhead expense as affected by volume of units produced, which change from time to time. When cost of production is lower, the new units have a lower monthly depreciation and decrease the average depreciation per unit per month, which means our cost of revenues is lower. Similarly, if cost of production is higher, the new units will have a higher monthly depreciation and increase the average depreciation per unit per month, which means our cost of revenues is higher. We believe growth in the number of monthly depreciation charges is predominately due to our sales and marketing efforts, which add new customers to an established customer base. The retirement of units from active leasing is primarily a function of the aggregate number of vascular testing units rented and the occurrence from time to time of system upgrades. The cost of hardware or supplies sold are the cost of production for the item sold. The other costs of revenue vary primarily as a function of the aggregate number of vascular testing units rented and changes in operations such as manufacturing, delivery or maintenance.
37
Table of Contents
Engineering and product development expense
Our engineering and product development expense consists of costs associated with the design, development, testing and enhancement of our vascular testing product and other products in development. We also include salaries and related employee benefits, research-related overhead expenses and fees paid to external service providers in our engineering and product development expense.
Sales and marketing expense
Our sales and marketing expense consists primarily of sales commissions and support costs, salaries and related employee benefits, travel, education, trade show and marketing costs.
General and administrative expense
Our general and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and related employee benefits, professional service fees, associated travel costs and depreciation and amortization expense.
Total other expense
Our total other income expense primarily reflects other taxes and fees as well as interest income and expense.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures in the financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that may be material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and that have a material impact on financial condition or operating performance. While we base our estimates and judgments on our experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our most critical accounting estimates include:
●
the allowance for doubtful accounts, which impacts revenue;
●
the valuation of inventory, which impacts profit margins;
●
the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes (including the measurement of uncertain tax positions), which impact our provision for taxes; and
●
the valuation and recognition of investments, which impacts our investment portfolio balance when we assess fair value and interest and other income, net, when we record impairments.
For additional information relating to these and other accounting policies, see Note 2 to our audited financial statements, appearing elsewhere in this this annual report on Form 10-K.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue from the licensing of our vascular testing product pursuant to agreements that automatically renew each month with revenue recognized on a daily convention basis. Our arrangements with customers for our vascular testing product are normally on a month-to-month basis with fees billed at the rates established in the customer agreement, which are either fixed fees or variable fees based on usage. We also recognize revenue for hardware and supplies sales as of the date of shipment. Our sale arrangements contain multiple products and services, including License fee for vascular testing product, system accessories, and service. Other than service, we generally deliver all of 
38
Table of Contents
the products upfront. Each of these products and services is a distinct performance obligation. System accessories and service are also sold on a standalone basis.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
We make estimates of the collectability of accounts receivable, especially analyzing the aging and nature of accounts receivable and historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer credit-worthiness, current economic trends, and changes in customer payment terms when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Credit evaluations are undertaken for all major sales transactions before shipment is authorized. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate aged items in the accounts receivable aging report and provide an allowance in an amount that we deem adequate for doubtful accounts. If management were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates, material differences in the amount of our reported operating expenses could result.
Inventory Valuation
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value on a first-in, first-out basis. The cost basis of our inventory is reduced for any products that are considered excessive or obsolete based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2021 we terminated a distribution agreement and wrote-down $1.2 million of inventory.
Accounting for Income Taxes
Deferred income taxes result primarily from temporary differences between financial and tax reporting. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates. Future tax benefits are subject to a valuation allowance when management is unable to conclude that our deferred tax assets will more-likely-than-not be realized from the results of operations.
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. If we determine that a tax position will more likely than not be sustained on audit, then the second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We re-evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effective settlement of audit issues, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision.
Investment Valuation
We have investments in equity securities in privately held companies without readily determinable fair values, which are generally recorded at cost, plus or minus subsequent observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar investments, less impairments. As part of our assessment for impairment indicators, we consider significant deterioration in the earnings performance and overall business prospects of the investee as well as significant adverse changes in the external environment these investments operate. If our qualitative assessment indicates the investments are impaired, the fair value of these equity securities would be estimated, which would involve a significant degree of judgement and subjectivity.
No impairment charges were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020.
39
Table of Contents
Factors Affecting Future Results
We have not identified any other factors that have a recurring effect that are necessary to understand period to period comparisons as appropriate, nor any one-time events that have an effect on the financials.
Results of Operations
Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020
Revenues
We had revenues of $53.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $38.6 million in 2020. Our revenues are primarily from fees charged to customers for use of our vascular testing products and from sale of accessories used with these products. We recognized revenues of $52.0 million from fees for our vascular testing products in 2021, consisting of $30.5 million from fixed-fee licenses and $21.5 million from variable-fee licenses, compared to $37.3 million in 2020, consisting of $25.7 million from fixed-fee licenses and $11.6 million from variable-fee licenses. The remainder was from other equipment/supply sales of accessories, which were $1.0 million in 2021 as compared to $1.3 million in 2020. 
Revenues from fees for vascular testing products are recognized monthly for each unit installed with a customer, usually billed as a fixed monthly fee or as a variable monthly fee dependent on usage. The primary reason for the increase in revenues was growth in the number of installed units from both new customers and established customers, which we believe is the result of our sales and marketing efforts. We have not yet generated any material revenues under our Insulin Insights distribution agreement.
Operating Expenses
We had total operating expenses of $33.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $22.6 million in 2020. The primary reason for this change was overall growth in our business, increased compensation of the sales team and increased headcount of field sales and technical support personnel to service the expanding number of customers, and the write-down of $1.2 million of inventory in the fourth quarter of 2021 due to our termination of a distribution agreement. As a percentage of revenues, operating expenses increased to 63% in 2021, as compared to 59% in 2020. The changes in the various components of our operating expenses are described below.
Cost of Revenues
We had cost of revenues of $6.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $3.4 million for 2020. The primary reasons for this change were the inventory write-down of $1.2 million due to cancellation of the distribution agreement, as well as increased personnel costs due to increased headcount and increased depreciation on leased assets. As a percentage of revenues, cost of revenues increased to 12% in 2021, as compared to 9% in 2020. Excluding the effect of the $1.2 million write-down of inventory, adjusted cost of revenues was unchanged at 9% in 2021.
Engineering and Product Development Expense
We had engineering and product development expense of $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $2.9 million in 2020. The increase was primarily due to personnel, consulting fees, clinical studies and other costs associated with our product development and customization efforts. As a percentage of revenues, engineering and product development expense was 7% in 2021 compared to 8% in 2020.
Sales and Marketing Expense
We had sales and marketing expense of $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $9.9 million in 2020. The increase was primarily due to higher sales compensation and personnel expense, higher dues and 
40
Table of Contents
subscriptions, consulting fee and other expenses. As a percentage of revenues, sales and marketing expense increased to 27% in 2021, as compared to 26% in 2020.
General and Administrative Expense
We had general and administrative expense of $9.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $6.4 million in 2020. The increase was primarily due to employee compensation related expenses, higher insurance, and dues and subscriptions, partially offset by lower local state and taxes. As a percentage of revenues, general and administrative expense was 17% in both 2021 and 2020 years.
Other Income and Expense
We had other income of $10,000 for 2021, compared to $525,000 in 2020. The decrease was
 primarily due to interest income associated with notes receivable and the sale of an equity in a private company in the prior year.
Provision  for Taxes
In 2021, we recorded an income tax expense of $2.2 million, compared to $2.5 million in 2020. The decrease was primarily due to windfall gains resulted from the exercise of stock options. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had federal NOL carryforwards of $0.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
Net Income
For the foregoing reasons, we had a net income of $17.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to a net income of $14.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, and pursuant to accounting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. In an effort to provide investors with additional information regarding the results and to provide a meaningful period-over-period comparison of our financial performance, we sometimes use non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, or NGFMs, as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In this annual report, we use the NGFMs of adjusted cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. Our management uses this NGFM because it adjusts for an event that management believes is not related to its core business, namely a $1.2 million write-down of inventory resulting from termination of a distribution agreement. Our management uses this NGFM to evaluate our financial performance against internal budgets and targets. Our management believes that this NGFM is useful for evaluating our core operating results and facilitating comparison across reporting periods. We believe this NGFM should be considered in addition to, and not in lieu of, GAAP financial measures. Our NGFM may be different from the same NGFMs used by other companies.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
We had cash and cash equivalents of $37.3 million at December 31, 2021, compared to $22.1 million at December 31, 2020, and total current liabilities of $4.9 million at December 31, 2021, compared to $4.5 million at December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2021, we had working capital of approximately $40.7 million.
Our cash is held in a variety of non-interest bearing bank accounts and interest-bearing instruments subject to investment guidelines allowing for holdings in U.S. government and agency securities, corporate securities, taxable municipal bonds, commercial paper and money market accounts. In addition, we have, and may in the future, choose to invest some of our cash resources in other entities that may have complementary technologies or product offerings.
41
Table of Contents
Operating Activities
We generated $16.1 million of net cash from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $15.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The improvement was primarily due to changes in net income, as well as both non-cash adjustments and operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities were $3.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $2.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to a $1.2 million inventory write-off, an increase of stock-based compensation and depreciation, partially offset by a decrease in deferred tax expense. Prior year there was a non-cash investment income due to retirement of interest on notes and investments, which also resulted in current year increase of non-cash adjustment. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used $4.6 million of net cash in the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $1.7 million of net cash in the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets due to overall growth in our business, increase in trade receivables, increase in inventory and decrease in trade payables, partially offset by an increase of accrued expenses due to timing of payments to the vendors.
Investing Activities
We used $0.8 million of net cash in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $1.0 million of net cash in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily attributable to decrease in purchase of assets for lease and decrease of one-time investment transaction, partially offset by an increase of property, plant and equipment due to higher headcount.
Financing Activities
We generated $13,000 of net cash from financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $230,000 during the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $58,000, partially offset by taxes paid related to equity awards of $45,000.
​